My First Period
Let’s get this out of the way – getting your period is nothing to be ashamed of. The average cycle lasts around 28 to 30 days, but it can range from around 21 to 35 days. Within each cycle, the period will last for a few days at a time, but its length will vary from person to person. Remember, every period is different, and that’s totally okay. Getting your period is one sign that your reproductive system is functioning properly. It’s a completely natural part of life.

Menstrual-Cycle Symptoms
A few days before your period starts, you might notice that your breasts feel a little sore or that your stomach is achy. You may get acne, feel tired, or go to the bathroom more frequently. That is all caused by your menstrual flow. But you might also feel the same as you usually do. It doesn’t sound glamorous or fun – but having periods means you can create life.

Puberty
Between the ages of about 10 and 14, you will begin to notice changes in your body. Or you might just feel different. That’s puberty - everyone goes through it. There are many different signs that suggest you may be going through puberty. Some of the changes your body experiences will be more exciting than others – but they’re all part of becoming an adult.
Period Products
The product you choose is totally up to you; different people prefer different products. And you might use a variety of products depending on the occasion. It’s your decision. Just make sure you feel comfortable and confident with the products you choose.

Pads: Pads are the most used period product, and there are many different kinds. Pads vary in thickness, absorbency, and length, but all adhere to your underwear to stay in place while they absorb period blood.

Liners: These pads are much smaller and thinner than overnight pads. They are a great option for when the menstrual flow is weaker, towards the end of your period, or for regular daily discharge.

Tampons: Tampons are designed to absorb period blood by being inserted into the vagina. Just as pads do, they come in different sizes. The choice of product size is related to your blood flow and has nothing to do with the size of the vagina.