Physical Development in Girls: What to Expect During Puberty
Breast Development
Girls usually begin puberty between the ages of 8 and 13 years old. The earliest sign of puberty in most girls is the development of breast "buds," nickel-sized bumps under the nipple. It is not unusual for breast growth to start on one side before the other. It's also common for breast buds to be somewhat tender or sore. Uneven breast growth and soreness are both totally normal and usually improve with time.
Body Hair
Coarser hair will begin to grow in the genital area, under the arms, and on the legs. In some girls (about 15%), pubic hair may be the first sign of puberty―showing up before breast budding starts.
A word about shaving
Around the time they reach middle school, many girls begin to show interest in shaving their legs and armpits. This is a personal choice; there is no medical reason to shave armpit or leg hair. Before giving them a razor, show them how to use it properly and avoid skin irritation and cuts, which can become infected. Some tips:

Wet the skin & use lotion or gel. Shaving dry skin can scratch and irritate it. It may be easiest to shave in the shower or bathtub when the skin is already wet. Shaving gel, lotion, or cream acts as a buffer on the skin and can help avoid cuts.

Use light pressure. Pressing too hard on the razor could shave off some of the skin.  Use extra care around the knees and ankles to avoid nicking the skin.

Replace the razor or its blade often. A dull blade is more likely to tug, scrape and irritate the skin.

Don't share razors. Sharing a razor can spread bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and cause skin infections.

Electric razors. Some electric razors are designed specifically for girls. These may be less likely to cut the skin, although they can still cause irritation.

Vaginal Discharge
Some girls experience a small to moderate amount of clear or white vaginal discharge that starts about 6-12 months before their first period. This is a normal response to growing amounts of the hormone estrogen in the body. 
Periods
While timelines can vary, most girls get their first period within 2 – 3 years after the development of breast buds. The average age for girls to get their first period in the United States is around age 12. It's important to emphasize that periods are a normal part of growing up. Young girls should know that it's okay to talk about periods and ask questions about them.  Some young people may have anxiety about how to handle their first period, given that it can happen unexpectedly.  Providing supplies (pads, tampons, and pantiliners) for your child's locker or backpack and reviewing resources at school, including the school nurse, can help alleviate this worry.

While some girls will have bright red blood with their first period, other girls may only have spotting with red-brown discharge―both are normal!  While some people will have periods once a month, periods may be irregular in the first few years as the body adapts to rapid physiological changes.  Also, normal cycles of periods can be as short as 21 days or as long as 35… so even people with regular cycles might not have a period every single month!

Abdominal cramping or pain with periods is also common. For most people, ibuprofen or naproxen used as needed are the best medicines to help with period cramps. If menstrual cramps are severe or causing your child to miss school, talk to your pediatrician about other options.

Increase in Height
Most girls have their growth spurt at a younger age than boys do. The fastest rate of height growth usually occurs in girls between when breast buds start to develop and about 6 months before they get their period. Once a girl has had her first period, her growth has already started to slow down. Most girls grow another 1-2 inches after getting their period, but increased height beyond that is less common.

Wider Hips
Her hips will get wider and her waist may get smaller.

Other Common Changes
Many young people develop acne during puberty. This can be related to changes in hormone levels during this time. Sweating under the armpits and increased body odor are also normal changes―and why most girls begin using deodorants and/or antiperspirants at the start of puberty. With more oil and sweat being made by the skin, girls this age may start wanting to shower or shampoo their hair more often.

On occasion, girls start puberty either very early or very late. Contact your pediatrician if you begin to see pubertal changes before your daughter is age 8. Likewise, contact your pediatrician if there are no pubertal changes in your daughter by age 13.